Define component-based triage meetings (#13946)
opensearch-project/OpenSearch: TRIAGING.md

<img src="https://opensearch.org/assets/img/opensearch-logo-themed.svg" height="64px">

> The maintainers of the OpenSearch Repo seek to promote an inclusive and engaged community of contributors. In order to facilitate this, weekly triage meetings are open-to-all and attendance is encouraged for anyone who hopes to contribute, discuss an issue, or learn more about the project. There are several weekly triage meetings scoped to the following component areas: Search, Storage, Cluster Manager, and finally "Core" as a catch-all for all other issues. To learn more about contributing to the OpenSearch Repo visit the [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.

Reviewer: sometime we see that issues have more than one component tags. So, based on the proposal, if an issue has one of the above tags and one of catch-all tags, would it be covered in the component meetings or in the both meetings?

Author: I would say that whichever the meeting happens first should look at it, and then do one of two things:
- triage the issue, potentially removing the other component tags if they are not applicable
- remove the component tag the current meeting "owns" and leave the issue untriaged so that the other meeting can triage it

What do you think?

Reviewer: If I understand correctly, this is what we are ending up doing today. Atleast, thats the case for Cluster Manager.
If the intent is to baseline this across components, then I am good.

However, in the fullness of time, we should see if we can have a mechanism to avoid double triaging. To this, I dont have a good answer at the moment. :genie:

Reviewer 2: @rwali-aws thanks for the thoughts - I'm resolving this comment thread to make progress. 

When we get more data points, it would be great to open a PR to update this document for discussion and adoption.

Each meeting we seek to address all new issues. However, should we run out of time before your issue is discussed, you are always welcome to attend the next meeting or to follow up on the issue post itself.

### How many triage meetings are there?

> The OpenSearch repository is very large and as a result, the rate of incoming issues and technical expertise required is too large for any one person to be able to effectively address all issues. Therefore, we have multiple triage meetings scoped to the following component areas: Search, Storage, Cluster Manager, and finally "Core" as a catch-all for all other issues. Component labels are used to filter issues, and each triage meeting will use these labels to construct a search as follows to target issues:

Reviewer 2: I don't think attendees are interested in 'why' they just want to know the answer to the question. What do you think of the following?
```suggestion
There are several weekly triage meetings scoped to the following component areas: Search, Storage, Cluster Manager, and finally "Core" as a catch-all for all other issues.  Depending on the issue's labels will determine which triage meeting will review the issue.
```

I think the question `How do I join the Triage meeting?` should still be first, the answer just got a little more interesting with many potential meetings.

Author: Totally agree the "why" isn't necessary and I like the shorter text, but I will not be taking your two-spaces-after-the-period suggestion

Author: I actually moved the "There are several weekly triage meetings..." line to the top paragraph. Let me know what you think.

> - [Search](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+label%3A%22Search%22%2C%22Search%3ARemote+Search%22%2C%22Search%3AResiliency%22%2C%22Search%3APerformance%22%2C%22Search%3ARelevance%22%2C%22Search%3AAggregations%22%2C%22Search%3AQuery+Capabilities%22%2C%22Search%3AQuery+Insights%22%2C%22Search%3ASearchable+Snapshots%22%2C%22Search%3AUser+Behavior+Insights%22)

Reviewer 2: What do you think about moving these search urls, the existing agenda doesn't take these into account on line 41 (bullet 4).  I'd rather these were build into the steps that are followed, otherwise the person running triage needs to remember and reference up in the document.

Could we bake these into that link so the person running triage only needs to click a link according the meeting they are in?

Author: Sure, I'll do that

- [Storage](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+label%3AStorage%2C%22Storage%3AResiliency%22%2C%22Storage%3APerformance%22%2C%22Storage%3ASnapshots%22%2C%22Storage%3ARemote%22%2C%22Storage%3ADurability%22)

> - [Cluster Manager](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+label%3A%22Cluster+Manager%22%2C%22ClusterManager%3ARemoteState%22)

Reviewer 2: Can we include the links to the specific meetup series for each of these?

Author: Done

- [Core](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+-label%3A%22Search%22%2C%22Search%3ARemote+Search%22%2C%22Search%3AResiliency%22%2C%22Search%3APerformance%22%2C%22Search%3ARelevance%22%2C%22Search%3AAggregations%22%2C%22Search%3AQuery+Capabilities%22%2C%22Search%3AQuery+Insights%22%2C%22Search%3ASearchable+Snapshots%22%2C%22Search%3AUser+Behavior+Insights%22%2C%22Storage%22%2C%22Storage%3AResiliency%22%2C%22Storage%3APerformance%22%2C%22Storage%3ASnapshots%22%2C%22Storage%3ARemote%22%2C%22Storage%3ADurability%22%2C%22Cluster+Manager%22%2C%22ClusterManager%3ARemoteState%22)

> Additionally, the "Core" meeting will, time permitting, look at all untriaged issues older than 14 days to prevent issues from falling through the cracks: https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+created%3A%3C2024-05-20 (Note the GitHub API does not allow for relative times, so the date in this search must be updated every meeting)

Reviewer 2: I think this is important and would be better if it was inline in the agenda so it was easy to follow during the meetings.  Seems like it should sit between the existing items 4 and 5 - what do you think?

Author: I moved this to the agenda section

After joining the virtual meeting, you can enable your video / voice to join the discussion.  If you do not have a webcam or microphone available, you can still join in via the text chat.

If you have an issue you'd like to bring forth please prepare a link to the issue so it can be presented and viewed by everyone in the meeting.

### Is there an agenda for each week?

Meeting structure may vary slightly, but the general structure is as follows:

1. **Initial Gathering:** Feel free to turn on your video and engage in informal conversation. Shortly, a volunteer triage [facilitator](#what-is-the-role-of-the-facilitator) will begin the meeting and share their screen.
2. **Record Attendees:** The facilitator will request attendees to share their GitHub profile links. These links will be collected and assembled into a [tag](#how-do-triage-facilitator-tag-comments-during-the-triage-meeting) to annotate comments during the meeting.
3. **Announcements:** Any announcements will be made at the beginning of the meeting.
4. **Review of New Issues:** We start by reviewing all untriaged issues. Each meeting has a label-based search to find relevant issues:

>   - [Search](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+label%3A%22Search%22%2C%22Search%3ARemote+Search%22%2C%22Search%3AResiliency%22%2C%22Search%3APerformance%22%2C%22Search%3ARelevance%22%2C%22Search%3AAggregations%22%2C%22Search%3AQuery+Capabilities%22%2C%22Search%3AQuery+Insights%22%2C%22Search%3ASearchable+Snapshots%22%2C%22Search%3AUser+Behavior+Insights%22)

Reviewer 2: Looks like you need another space for these to be picked up by markdown as 'sub-bullets' of item 4, you can see this on the rich diff: 
![image](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/assets/2754967/f9dc0aeb-73f0-4b98-aa28-6c5ed2ad9d97)

   - [Storage](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+label%3AStorage%2C%22Storage%3AResiliency%22%2C%22Storage%3APerformance%22%2C%22Storage%3ASnapshots%22%2C%22Storage%3ARemote%22%2C%22Storage%3ADurability%22)
   - [Cluster Manager](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+label%3A%22Cluster+Manager%22%2C%22ClusterManager%3ARemoteState%22)
   - [Core](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Auntriaged+-label%3A%22Search%22%2C%22Search%3ARemote+Search%22%2C%22Search%3AResiliency%22%2C%22Search%3APerformance%22%2C%22Search%3ARelevance%22%2C%22Search%3AAggregations%22%2C%22Search%3AQuery+Capabilities%22%2C%22Search%3AQuery+Insights%22%2C%22Search%3ASearchable+Snapshots%22%2C%22Search%3AUser+Behavior+Insights%22%2C%22Storage%22%2C%22Storage%3AResiliency%22%2C%22Storage%3APerformance%22%2C%22Storage%3ASnapshots%22%2C%22Storage%3ARemote%22%2C%22Storage%3ADurability%22%2C%22Cluster+Manager%22%2C%22ClusterManager%3ARemoteState%22)

> 5. **Attendee Requests:** An opportunity for any meeting member to request consideration of an issue or pull request.

Reviewer 2: In the previous iteration you had a finding _any_ older untriaged issues, did you want to put that back in around here?  I think it would be great if every triage meeting double checked one another.

Author: Yes, good catch

Author: I added that text in a 7th agenda item
